Actions: API, command, and jobspec docs (#19166)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/commands/job/action.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Commands: job action'
description: |
  The job action command is used to execute predefined actions from a job
  specification in a running task context
---

# Command: job action

**Alias: `nomad action`**

The `job action` command allows operators to execute predefined actions declared
in Nomad job specifications. These actions can be defined at task level and are
intended for specific operational tasks, such as clearing a cache, or migrating
a database.

An action may self-terminate upon completion (for example, echoing a string),
or run for an indeterminate amount of time (for example, watching a blocking
query). In the latter case, an action can be terminated via escape character
(such as cmd+c / ctrl+c)

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `alloc-exec`,
`read-job`, and `list-jobs` capabilities for the allocation's namespace. If
the task driver does not have file system isolation (as with `raw_exec`),
this command requires the `alloc-node-exec`, `alloc-exec`, `read-job`, and
`list-jobs` capabilities for the allocation's namespace.

## Usage

```plaintext

> nomad job action [options] <job_action_name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nomad job action [options] <action>
```

```

The `job action` command requires an action name and accepts two ways of

> specifying where it should be run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifying where it should run:
```

- by passing the job name and known allocation ID along with the name of the action
- by passing the job, task group, and task name along with the name of the action
(when the allocation ID is not known). A random allocation will be selected if
multiple are available.

The action name provided must be defined within a task in the [job specification]
provided. With sufficient privileges, an execution context will be opened and
the defined action command will be run. No further input is possible, save for
the escape character to terminate execution, so interactive commands are not
supported.

## General Options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

## Action Options

> - `-job`: (Required) Specifies the job containing the predefined action. This
>   is the job under which the task is registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-job`: (Required) Specifies the job containing the predefined action.
```

Seems a bit redundant.

- `-alloc`: Specifies the allocation within which the action is to be executed.

>   If omitted, either a task-group and task-name must be provided, and a random
>   allocation will be selected from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If omitted, `-group` and `-task` must be provided, and a random
  allocation for the group will be selected.
```

> - `-task`: Specifies the task within the job where the action is defined. This
>   must correspond to a task in the job's specification, and is required if no
>   `alloc` option is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-task`: Specifies the task within the job where the action is defined. 
```

The second sentence seems a bit redundant and I think the last one is not true? Don't you always need to specify a task, otherwise we can't find the action?

Author: This feedback threw me into a panic, but you're right! What I wrote is only true in instances of one-task-per-alloc, where it'll work without `-task` being passed in.

Otherwise we'll get something like this:

```
Allocation "abcd1234" is running the following tasks:
  * task
  * othertask

Please specify the task.
```

I'll modify the doc accordingly. Phew, thanks @lgfa29 !

> - `-group`: Specifies the task group within the job. This is needed when
>   selecting a random allocation from a specific task, and is required if no
>   `alloc` option is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-group`: Specifies the task group within the job. If present, a random allocation is selected. If omitted, `-alloc` must be provided.
```

Just matching the style of `-alloc`.

> - `-i`: Pass stdin to the container, defaults to true. Pass `-i=false` to
>   disable explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-i`: Pass stdin to the action, defaults to `true`. Pass `-i=false` to
  disable explicitly.
```

> - `-t`: Allocate a pseudo-tty, defaults to true if stdin is detected to be a tty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-t`: Allocate a pseudo-tty, defaults to `true` if stdin is detected to be a tty
```

  session. Pass `-t=false` to disable explicitly.

> - `-e` <escape_char>: Sets the escape character for sessions with a pty
>   (default: '~'). The escape character is only recognized at the beginning of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-e` <escape_char>: Sets the escape character for sessions with a pty,
  defaults to '~'. The escape character is only recognized at the beginning of a
```

Matching the style of `-t` and `-i`.

>   line. The escape character followed by a dot ('.') closes the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  line. The escape character followed by a dot (`.`) closes the connection.
```

  Setting the character to 'none' disables any escapes and makes the session

>   fully transparent.

Reviewer 2: I think we tend to state whether they are required or not as part of the normal sentence which is also my personal preference; but not a hard requirement.

>   Setting the character to 'none' disables any escapes and makes the session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Setting the character to `none` disables any escapes and makes the session
```

## Examples

Execute an action within a specific task in a job:

```shell-session
$ nomad action \
  -group=my-group \
  -task=my-task \
  -job=my-job \
  weather

Toronto: ☁️   +3°C

> ``````

Reviewer: GItHub is not happy about this suggestion, but you have 6 backticks here.
